TPS Cold Dead Hands
===================

This mod completely revamps the way in which weapons and shields are
acquired during the game.  Instead of dropping weapons/shields from a
random loot pool, enemies will now *always* drop the specific gun and
shield that they're using.  In the default configuration, enemy gear
quality is also improved considerably.

In general, these enhanced enemy drops are just about the *only* way to
acquire weapons and shields in the game.  Weapons and shields will not be
found in chests, and vending machines have severely restricted inventories.
Some notable exceptions include quest rewards, which are unchanged, and
larger "lootsplosion" type events generated by raid bosses, endgame rewards
and the like.

In the default configuration, this mod is a spiritual cousin of my own
Better Loot mod.  You'll be up against enemies using purples, gemstones,
and even legendaries.  Gear quality can be customized easily in
FilterTool/BLCMM, so you can still play using something close to the stock
Borderlands gear quality.  Regardless of gear quality configuration, Badass
enemies will have better gear than their ordinary counterparts.

Grenade Mods, Class Mods, and Oz Kits will still be acquired as per usual -
via world drops, chests, and the like.

Usage/Installation
------------------

This mod must be imported into FilterTool/BLCMM with `Developer tools` ->
`Add single mod`.  Choose the file `TPS Cold Dead Hands.txt` and
have at it!

Mod Details
-----------

As stated above, enemies who use guns and shields will always drop that gun
and shield.  Creatures like Stalkers or viruses/bugs/etc from Claptastic
Voyage, devices like turrets, and Eridian Guardians will NOT drop
a shield, even if they spawn with one.  Shield drops *can* be optionally
enabled for all three groups of enemies, though.

Bosses with unique drops who don't actually use weapons/shields (ie: most
"creature" enemies like X-STLK-23, machines like RK5, melee-only
bosses) will still drop their unique items as per usual.  Raid bosses, and
other large "lootsplosion" events may end up generating some guns/shields
as well.

If a weapon/shield-using boss has multiple unique drops of a weapon or
shield, they will spawn with one of those items chosen randomly, and that
will be the item that they'll drop.  So you should be able to tell right
from the start of the battle which gun you'll receive.

### Exceptions

* Moonstone chests, since they cost 40E to open, have had their loot pools
  left alone.  They will spawn gear as they always have.

* Some chests have not had their weapons/shields removed.  This list is
  probably not exhaustive, and I haven't really tested many of these to find
  out.  Regardless, the drops from these chests should be unaltered:
  * Zarpedon's chest in Pity's fall
  * Moxxi's chest in Concordia
  * The couple mission-specific chests in Research + Development
  * The three custom gear chests in Claptastic Voyage (which give the Heartfull
    Splodger, Cutie Killer, and M0RQ)
  * Spyware chest from Claptastic Voyage

* There's some strange problem with the Dahl Lost Legion soldiers in the Veins
  of Helios map which prevents them from being affected by this mod.  I honestly
  have no idea why I can't seem to hotfix them.  Boils and other enemies in the
  area are fine, though, and Lost Legion elsewhere in the game work just fine.

* Ordinarily, Lost Legion Eternal (and plain ol' Eternal) drop a weapon when they
  start ascending, but as far as I can tell there's no way to make this drop the
  SAME weapon they were using.  I ended up disabling that drop entirely -- if you
  want their weapon, be sure to kill 'em before they start ascending!  I justify
  this to myself by saying they must need the matter as part of whatever reaction
  is powering their ascension.  :)

### Configuration

There are six main categories which you can use to customize the gear
quality, when loaded into FilterTool/BLCMM:

* **Loot Pool Improvements**: This section improves the global legendary pool
  by adding all uniques and glitch uniques.  (There are only two Glitch
  uniques: the Heartfull Splodger and the Cutie Killer).  Those options can
  be toggled individually.

* **Enemy Gear Quality**: This is a mutually-exclusive category (so you can
  only choose one of the options), and defines how good the enemy gear is.
  The default ("Excellent Gear") is more or less at the Better Loot mod's
  "Lootsplosion" levels, so high-level gear will be extremely common.
  Remember that guns and shields aren't easily acquireable outside of enemy
  equipment, so choosing the "Stock" preset here may hamper your own gear
  loadout.  Epic treasure chests will no longer help out, etc.

* **Boss Unique Weapon Frequency**: This is another mutually-exclusive
  category, so you can only choose one option.  It will let you choose how
  often bosses will equip/drop their unique loot.  The default is
  "guaranteed," which is what the Better Loot mod does in "Lootsplosion,"
  but you can scale that back all the way to the stock values.

* **Stalker Shield Behavior**: In the default configuration, Stalkers behave
  just like they always have in BL2: they have a shield, but it's not a "real"
  shield and won't drop.  If you prefer, though, you can toggle stalker
  shields so that they work like other shielded enemies with Cold Dead Hands,
  so you'll get stalkers using Novas and Maylay shields, and they'll drop them
  when killed.

* **Eridian Guardian Shield Behavior**: In the default configuration, Eridian
  Guardians will just use their default shield, and not drop any.  Like
  Stalkers, they can optionally be set to equip and drop "real" shields.

* **Claptastic Voyage Creature Shield Behavior**: As with Stalkers and
  Eridian Guardians, by default the creatures from the Claptastic Voyage DLC
  (viruses, bugs, glitches, etc) will not equip or drop "real" shields.
  That can optionally be toggled on in here.

### Implications

* Remember that with this mod active, mods which provide buffs to weapons
  will help your opponents as well as yourself.  You may not want to have
  any super-OP gear in your active mod list, unless you're looking for a
  real challenge.  This is sometimes offset by the enemy AI not really
  knowing how to use better gear efficiently, though for very powerful
  weapons, that's not much help.

* Weapons and Shields ordinarily found in treasure chests have been replaced
  with the main ammo/money/eridium pool, rather than removed outright,
  because otherwise the probabilities of getting grenade mods, COMs, and
  relics would be greatly buffed.  So you'll have to get used to epic chests
  opening up to find a handful of dollars and some pistol ammo.  (Also note
  that as of right now, the extra ammo/money won't be aligned properly within
  the chest.  Them's the breaks, currently.)

* Keep in mind that areas which are creature-heavy (such as Serenity's Waste,
  Eleseer, and some areas of the Claptastic Voyage DLC) will be pretty weak
  in the loot front, since weapons and shields will generally not be found
  in those areas.

Compatibility
-------------

This mod is fully compatible with UCP.

This will obviously conflict with other mods with similar aims.

This mod overwrites/disables much of the functionality in my own "Better
Loot" mod, but it's designed to work fine with both enabled (so long as
this mod appears later in your patch file).  The "Better Loot" improvements
to Class Mods, Grenades, Relics, Raid Boss drops, etc, should help out
against the increased enemy difficulty here, in fact.

My own "Early Bloomer" mod will unlock all gear from the beginning of the
game, so enable that if you want early-game bandits to have the best gear
possible.  Note that Better Loot already includes Early Bloomer, so if
you're running Better Loot, you wouldn't have to bother.

Mod Construction / Implementation Details
-----------------------------------------

*(This section is only relevant for someone looking to edit the mod in the
same way I do, or just someone curious about my mod construction techniques.
If you're just looking to run the mod, see the "Usage" section above.  The
mod can, of course, be edited directly in FilterTool/BLCMM as well, once it's
been imported.)*

This mod is actually generated using a simple little Python script named
`generate-source.py`.  The script makes use of `hotfix.py` from the parent
directory.  You'd need to copy (or symlink, if you're on Mac or Linux)
`hotfix.py` into this directory in order to run the script.

To generate the end result file, I actually run the small shell script
`create.sh` in this directory, which just does the following:

    ./generate-source.py && ../conv_to_mod.py -f "TPS Cold Dead Hands"

Bugs
====

Known issues with the mod:

* When guns/shields inside chests get replaced by money/ammo, the money/ammo
  orientation is wrong - they sort of "stick up" from the chest in an
  unnatural-looking way.  For now I'm just coping; there's a couple different
  ways to fix that (enumerated below) but I don't particularly care to do
  either at the moment.

* Dahl Lost Legion inside the Veins of Helios don't have this mod applied.
  Hotfixes against their `AIPawnBalanceDefinition` objects just seem to get
  totally ignored.  I could work around this by redirecting the "stock" equip
  pools to my custom ones, but I'd been purposefully leaving those alone in
  case anything else was using them.  I don't *think* that should be the case,
  but I'll have to do some digging.

Ideas/TODO
==========

Things to think about:

* Enemy Moon Buggies shouldn't drop weapons
* Restrict weapon manufacturer by level?  (Only Dahl in Lunar Launching Station, etc?)
* Might be nifty to restrict weapon manufacturer by enemy type, though that
  would require eating up more skinpools (the by-level idea could reuse all
  of ours w/ hotfixes)
* Fix orientation of items spawning in chests?  There's two ways to do this:
  1. Update the `RelativeRotation` attribute inside the appropriate
     `SkeletalMeshSocket` objects.  The danger here is the handful of
     chests which *do* still spawn guns - we'd have to make sure those still
     look okay.
  2. Update each chest pool configuration so that the attachments which used
     to spawn weapons/shields attach to different locations, or just not at
     all.  The problem here is that's just a fair amount of busywork I don't
     care to do.
* Optionally disable our container nerfs.  (This is actually mostly already
  available -- we'd just need to move some of our big list-of-hotfixes in
  with the other container area, and probably move the folder around a bit.)

Licenses
========

The `generate-source.py` script itself is licensed under the
[3-clause BSD license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause),
which should be permissive enough to do just about whatever with.

The mod itself is licensed under
[Public Domain / CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

See [COPYING-code.txt](../COPYING-code.txt) and [COPYING-mods.txt](../COPYING-mods.txt)
for the full text.

Changelog
=========

**v1.0.0** - *unreleased*
