TPS Better Loot Mod by Apocalyptech
===================================

Work in progress!

Mod Overview
------------

* Adds all legendaries + uniques (weapons, grenade mods, class mods,
  shields, oz kits) into the global "legendary" loot pools, so
  you'll start seeing those much more frequently.
* Loot will skew much more rare, in general.  You should expect to see
  those legendaries/uniques far more frequently than in vanilla TPS.
* Glitch weapons spawn in the main game
* Luneshine weapons will drop in all world drop pools (this is identical
  to some functionality in UCP)
* Legendary/Unique weapons which allow Luneshine are guaranteed to spawn
  with Luneshine.  (Some legendaries/uniques don't have Luneshine set as
  possible accessories, so they will continue to not have Luneshine.  ie:
  Marek's Mouth, Cry Baby, Longnail, Heartfull Splodger, Cutie Killer, and
  a handful of others.)
* Makes Moonstones drop 2x more often
* Normalizes weapon type drops a bit.  *(Decreases pistol drop chance,
  increases all other weapon types.)*
* Lootable Container Changes:
  * "Regular" treasure chests will always provide at least blue-rarity gear,
    and have a decent chance of including stuff from the legendary pools.
  * "Epic" treasure chests have an extremely high probability of dropping
    from the legendary pools.
  * Moonstone chests are guaranteed to contain legendary loot.
  * When lockers spawn gear, they will always be blue-rarity.  *(Previously
    lockers had a chance to spawn even legendaries, so some could potentially
    see this as a drawback)*
  * Safes have been improved: Eridium configurations are far more likely, cash
    quantities have been improved.  Gear drop chances have been dropped
    somewhat, but gear from safes will always be legendary.
  * Fixes some "shield" loot configurations which had an error and would
    never spawn, previously.
* Boss drop pools are generally improved, and bosses are guaranteed to drop as
  many items from their unique drop pool as are in that pool. *(needs testing)*
  * Bosses with just a single unique drop will therefore be guaranteed to drop
    that item.
  * If a boss has more than one in their drop pool, you may get duplicates
    of one rather than one of each.
* Fixes/Changes to some enemies' drop poools:
  * Badass loot drops have been improved
  * Chubby drop pool has been improved.  *(Though the only chubbies in the
    game are Stalkers, so it's sort of hardly worth it.)*
  * Many enemies from the Claptastic Voyage DLC have a unique legendary drop
    associated with them, with a default drop rate of 0.1%.  This mod ups that
    probability to 1.5%.
* Remove early-game loot restrictions.  This is actually a superset of the
  similar feature already present in UCP 2.1.  This version enables spawning
  of basically everything from the beginning, including all grenade types,
  oz kits, class mods, rocket launchers, etc.  Both this and the UCP 2.1
  "Make good stuff drop earlier" mods can be active at the same time with
  no ill effects.  Note that if you *don't* have either this or UCP
  enabled on your game, the early game will end up dropping *no* gear, due
  to our rarity changes.

Compatibility
-------------

This'll be interesting - The TPS UCP touches a lot of the same stuff
that we'll be touching here.  Will figure it out as I go...

Loot Purposefully Excluded from Pools
-------------------------------------

There's some gear which I felt shouldn't be in the pools at all.  I am
quite willing to hear counterarguments; my mind could probably be pretty
easily persuaded otherwise if someone feels strongly about it.

* Springs' Oz Kit
* Cracked Sash (Shield)
* Contraband Sky Rocket grenade *can* spawn, but has a much decreased
  chance compared to all the other legendaries.

There's also a few drop pools / containers / etc which I've purposefully
left alone:

* Cash Boxes
* Ammo Chests
* Cardboard Boxes
* Dumpsters
* etc...

Some other stuff not done:

* This mod won't touch the Grinder.  No point, really, given the rest of
  the mod, and there are plenty of other mods out there which already
  do that.

Other Recommended Mods
----------------------

* My own "Luneshine on Uniques" mod will add Luneshine attachments to ten
  uniques/legendaries which don't otherwise support them.  Weapons generated by
  that mod will get deleted by TPS if its started up without the mod active,
  though, which is why I didn't include it here.
* Kazy's "88.89% Less Luneshine" is great for decreasing the visual effect of
  Luneshine, which I appreciate since there's so much more Luneshine in general
  when using this mod -- weapons all look too similar with the vanilla Luneshine
  effect.

TODO
----

* Check legendary drop pools
* Check boss unique drops
* Maybe decrease Moonstone chest cost in exchange for not doing guaranteed
  legendaries on it?  Mull it over.
* Check Lootbug drops
* I suspect that most everything that drops from the `UltimateBadassEnemyGunsAndGear`
  pool does so multiple times; we may want to nerf that a bit, or see about
  limiting the number of spawns for the more extreme enemies.
* Relatedly, I seem to recall that badasses might be more common in TPS in general,
  may need to nerf that drop pool a bit, too.

Credits
-------

* A set of statements to allow Luneshine spawns in the world drops was
  taken from UCP.

Licenses
========

The `generate-source.py` script itself is licensed under the
[3-clause BSD license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause),
which should be permissive enough to do just about whatever with.

The mod itself is licensed under
[Public Domain / CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

See [COPYING-code.txt](../COPYING-code.txt) and [COPYING-mods.txt](../COPYING-mods.txt)
for the full text.

Changelog
=========

**v1.0.0**, (tbd):
 * Initial public release
