BL2 Cold Dead Hands
===================

This mod completely revamps the way in which weapons and shields are
acquired during the game.  Instead of dropping weapons/shields from a
random loot pool, enemies will now *always* drop the specific gun and
shield that they're using.  In the default configuration, enemy gear
quality is also improved considerably.

In general, these enhanced enemy drops are just about the *only* way to
acquire weapons and shields in the game.  Weapons and shields will not be
found in chests, and vending machines have severely restricted inventories.
Some notable exceptions include quest rewards, which are unchanged, and
larger "lootsplosion" type events generated by raid bosses, endgame rewards
and the like.

In the default configuration, this mod is a spiritual cousin of my own
Better Loot mod.  You'll be up against enemies using purples, gemstones,
and even legendaries.  Gear quality can be customized easily in BLCMM,
so you can still play using something close to the stock Borderlands gear
quality.  Regardless of gear quality configuration, Badass enemies will
have better gear than their ordinary counterparts.

Grenade Mods, Class Mods, and Relics will still be acquired as per usual -
via world drops, chests, and the like.

**NOTE:** This mod has a *lot* of user-configurable options (detailed below
in the "Configuration" section).  In fact, there's 11,520 theoretically-supported
permutations of the options.  Needless to say, I have not thoroughly tested
all combinations to ensure that everything works as it should.  if you encounter
strange behavior, definitely look me up on Discord, github, or email, with
full details of how you've got it configured, and I can take a look.

* [Requirements](#requirements)
* [Usage/Installation](#usageinstallation)
* [Mod Details](#mod-details)
  * [Exceptions](#exceptions)
  * [Other Pool Tweaks](#other-pool-tweaks)
  * [Configuration](#configuration)
  * [Implications](#implications)
* [Compatibility](#compatibility)
* [Mod Construction / Implementation Details](#mod-construction--implementation-details)
* [Bugs](#bugs)
* [Ideas/TODO](#ideastodo)
* [Licenses](#licenses)
* [Changelog](#changelog)

Requirements
------------

Cold Dead Hands should theoretically be fully standalone, as of version 1.1
(it no longer requires any part of UCP).  It's received the most testing
in conjunction with UCP 4.1, but let me know if there are any problems when
running without.

Note that Cold Dead Hands is probably incompatible with any version of
BL2 Reborn, and may cause crashes or other instability if run together
with that.

Cold Dead Hands assumes that you have all Borderlands DLC (including the
Headhunter packs, though it's possible that it'll work fine if you don't
have those).

Usage/Installation
------------------

This mod must be imported into BLCMM with `File -> Import single mod`.
Choose the file `BL2 Cold Dead Hands.blcm` and have at it!

Mod Details
-----------

As stated above, enemies who use guns and shields will always drop that gun
and shield.  Creatures like Stalkers and Skeletons, and devices like turrets,
will NOT drop a shield, even if they spawn with one.  (Stalker shield drops
can be optionally toggled on.)  Shielded loaders will drop shields, though.
This mod will cause weapon-using enemies to use their UCP drops, whether
you have UCP installed.

Bosses with unique drops who don't actually use weapons/shields (ie: most
"creature" enemies like Knuckedragger, machines like BNK3R, melee-only
bosses) will still drop their unique items as per usual.  Raid bosses, and
other large "lootsplosion" events may end up generating some guns/shields
as well.

If a weapon/shield-using boss has multiple unique drops of a weapon or
shield, they will spawn with one of those items chosen randomly, and that
will be the item that they'll drop.  So you should be able to tell right
from the start of the battle which gun you'll receive.

### Exceptions

* Some chests have not had their weapons/shields removed.  This list is
  probably not exhaustive, and I haven't really tested many of these to find
  out:
  * Golden Chest is completely untouched
  * Roland's Chest in Sanctuary will probably contain actual gear.
  * Dice Chests (from the Tiny Tina DLC) are probably unaffected.  Weapons
    are sparse enough during that DLC as it is.
  * Chests which were hardcoded to give specific gear should still provide that
    gear:
    * Shotgun chest at the end of Windshear Waste
    * Slag Gun oven in the Wattle Gobbler Headhunter Pack
    * Red chest in Torgue arena
  * Snowman's head in Tundra Express
  * Slot machines
  * Torgue vending machines

* Doc Mercy has to be using an E-Tech blaster for Medical Mystery to make
  sense, so I've chosen to keep that rather than having him use an Infinity
  on you.  So Doc Mercy will drop an Infinity even though he's not actually
  using one.  If someone has a clever way to make a loot pool change in
  response to a mission being active or not, I'd love to hear it!  (Digistruct
  Doc Mercy will alternate between E-tech level ARs and the Infinity, though)

* Mad Mike will retain at least a 50% chance of spawning with a random
  rocket launcher, even on "guaranteed" unique loot configurations.

* Master Gee is the only raid boss who actually uses a recognizable weapon --
  a strange version of the Ahab.  He rarely ever actually fires it, though,
  and his animations don't really support other weapons anyway, so I'm
  leaving him alone.  He'll continue to use the special Ahab, and drop
  however he'd otherwise drop.  (See other mods like Better Loot to improve
  his (and other Raid boss) drops.)

* UCP adds a Manly Man shield drop to H3RL-E.  Even though H3RL-E uses
  a shield normally, the Manly Man would only nerf the fight, which I'm
  not keen to do.  So H3RL-E may drop the Manly Man without actually having
  it equipped.

* Paladins (from the Dragon Keep DLC) will not equip/drop real shields; having
  a real shield messes with their behavior too much.

* The Tributes (from the Wattle Gobbler Headhunter Pack) will have a 2/3rds
  chance of dropping the unique items that UCP adds to their drop pools
  compared to other enemies, since there are so many of them in one location.
  So even on "guaranteed" drops you may not get their unique items.

### Other Pool Tweaks

* Big Sleep is usually the one to drop the 12 Pounder, but that drop/equip
  has been moved to Sandman.

* Torgue DLC Badass gang members use the global badass equip pool, rather
  than a gang-specific pool.  ("Regular" gang members use gang-specific
  pools, though, as per the stock game.)

* Torgue DLC gang members can equip/drop launchers now.

### Configuration

There are various categories which you can use to customize the gear
quality, when loaded into BLCMM:

* **Loot Pool Improvements**: This section adds gemstones into the global E-Tech
  pool, and improves the global legendary pool by adding all uniques,
  pearls, and seraphs.  These options can all be toggled individually.

* **Enemy Gear Quality**: This is a mutually-exclusive category (so you can
  only choose one of the options), and defines how good the enemy gear is.
  The default ("Excellent Gear") is more or less at the Better Loot mod's
  "Lootsplosion" levels, so high-level gear will be extremely common.
  Remember that guns and shields aren't easily acquireable outside of enemy
  equipment, so choosing the "Stock" preset here may hamper your own gear
  loadout.  Epic treasure chests will no longer help out, etc.

* **Rarity Drop Rates**: This is another mutually-exclusive category.  In the
  default configuration, enemies will *always* drop the weapon+shield that they
  have equipped.  To give a percent chance of dropping the lower rarities, to
  prevent an overabundance of unwanted gear, you can opt to do so in here.
  Purples, E-Tech, Gemstones, and Legendaries will always drop, though.
  Selecting this option makes the drops in BL2 pretty similar to BL1-style drops.

* **Boss Unique Weapon Frequency**: This is another mutually-exclusive
  category, so you can only choose one option.  It will let you choose how
  often bosses will equip/drop their unique loot.  The default is
  "guaranteed," which is what the Better Loot mod does in "Lootsplosion,"
  but you can scale that back all the way to the stock values.

* **Stalker Shield Behavior**: In the default configuration, Stalkers behave
  just like they always have in BL2: they have a shield, but it's not a "real"
  shield and won't drop.  If you prefer, though, you can toggle stalker
  shields so that they work like other shielded enemies with Cold Dead Hands,
  so you'll get stalkers using Novas and Maylay shields, and they'll drop them
  when killed.  Additionally, if you want to make them very deadly in general,
  you can specify that they *only* use Maylay shields.

* **Remove Level-Based Loot Restrictions**: This Allows all weapon, shield,
  grenade, COM, shield, relic, and ammo types from the very beginning of the
  game.  If you have the quality of gear pumped up, it's possible that some
  early-game enemies might not otherwise be properly equipped unless you've got
  something like this which unlocks everything.  This is a duplicate of my
  BL2 Early Bloomer mod, and is also included inside BL2 Better Loot, though
  there's no problems with having it enabled in multiple places.  Note that if
  you have "Excellent Gear" or "Better Gear" selected *without* this option
  being active, you may end up with some oddities like E-Techs without elements.

Additionally, there's one category in the "Main Mod" section which you may
be interested in:

* `Main Mod -> Disable World Weapon/Shield Drops -> Remove Weapons and Shields
  from Containers`: This section is what removes all weapons/shields from
  treasure chests and other containers in the game.  If this bothers you, feel
  free to uncheck this option.  (This might be especially useful if you've
  opted to keep some of the stock rarity values, or disabled rocket launchers
  in the global equip pools, etc.)

### Implications

* Remember that with this mod active, mods which provide buffs to weapons
  will help your opponents as well as yourself.  You may not want to have
  any super-OP gear in your active mod list, unless you're looking for a
  real challenge.  This is sometimes offset by the enemy AI not really
  knowing how to use better gear efficiently, though for very powerful
  weapons, that's not much help.

* It's not obvious in the vanilla game, but nearly all Loaders spawn with a
  shield. Ordinarily their shield can *only* be charged up by Shield
  Surveyors, and their shields start out at zero strength.  With this mod,
  all their shields have turned into real shields, which start regenerating
  immediately, which will probably make Loader-heavy areas much more
  difficult.

* Weapons and Shields ordinarily found in treasure chests have been replaced
  with the main ammo/money/eridium pool, rather than removed outright,
  because otherwise the probabilities of getting grenade mods, COMs, and
  relics would be greatly buffed.  So you'll have to get used to epic chests
  opening up to find a handful of dollars and some pistol ammo.  (Also note
  that as of right now, the extra ammo/money won't be aligned properly within
  the chest.  Them's the breaks, currently.)

* Keep in mind that areas which are creature-heavy (such as Caustic Caverns)
  or full of non-gear-using enemies (such as most of the Dragon Keep DLC) will
  be pretty weak in the loot front, since weapons and shields will generally
  not be found in those areas.

Compatibility
-------------

This mod is compatible with UCP 4.1, and in fact requires that UCP 4.1's skinpool
changes be in place.  UCP 4.0 isn't supported with this mod -- be sure to be
using the most recent.

Cold Dead Hands will obviously conflict with other mods with similar aims.
theNocturni's "Enemy Enhancer" is one obvious conflict, though the
non-loot-pool parts of Enemy Enhancer would still be active (such as
faster enemy animations, etc).

**Note:** Cold Dead Hands is incompatible with BL2 Reborn, and using the
two together has been known to cause crashes.

This mod overwrites/disables much of the functionality in my own "Better
Loot" mod, but it's designed to work fine with both enabled (so long as
this mod appears later in your patch file).  The "Better Loot" improvements
to Class Mods, Grenades, Relics, Raid Boss drops, etc, should help out
against the increased enemy difficulty here, in fact.

Mod Construction / Implementation Details
-----------------------------------------

*(This section is only relevant for someone looking to edit the mod in the
same way I do, or just someone curious about my mod construction techniques.
If you're just looking to run the mod, see the "Usage" section above.  The
mod can, of course, be edited directly in BLCMM as well, once it's
been imported.)*

This mod is actually generated using a Python script named
`generate-mod.py`.  The script makes use of `modprocessor.py` from the parent
directory.  You'd need to copy (or symlink, if you're on Mac or Linux)
`modprocessor.py` into this directory in order to run the script.

Bugs
====

Known issues with the mod:

* When guns/shields inside chests get replaced by money/ammo, the money/ammo
  orientation is wrong - they sort of "stick up" from the chest in an
  unnatural-looking way.  For now I'm just coping; there's a couple different
  ways to fix that (enumerated below) but I don't particularly care to do
  either at the moment.
* As a side-effect of the way we have to make use of loot pools, skin drops
  from various enemies will be broken (it's that or break skin rewards for
  challenges/missions).  Cold Dead Hands breaks skin drops for the following:
  creepers, skags, chubbies/tubbies, spiderants, and threshers.

Ideas/TODO
==========

* Because gemstones were added into the E-Tech pool, the Medical Mystery
  mission might accidentally reward you a gemstone weapon rather than
  E-Tech.
* Restrict weapon manufacturer by level?  (Only Jakobs in Lynchwood, etc?)
* Might be nifty to restrict weapon manufacturer by enemy type, though that
  would require eating up more skinpools (the by-level idea could reuse all
  of ours w/ hotfixes)
* Fix orientation of items spawning in chests?  There's two ways to do this:
  1. Update the `RelativeRotation` attribute inside the appropriate
     `SkeletalMeshSocket` objects.  The danger here is the handful of
     chests which *do* still spawn guns - we'd have to make sure those still
     look okay.
  2. Update each chest pool configuration so that the attachments which used
     to spawn weapons/shields attach to different locations, or just not at
     all.  The problem here is that's just a fair amount of busywork I don't
     care to do.
* Various lootsplosion-style events provide weapons (and maybe shields), and
  should possibly be nerfed.  I've left them as-is for awhile mostly out of
  laziness, and partly because I think they probably *should* continue to give
  some gear, even if they violate the spirit of the mod.  This list is
  probably not exhaustive, but:
  * BNK3R lootsplosion
  * Warrior lootsplosion
  * Good, Bad, Mordecai lootsplosion
  * Handsome Dragon lootsplosion
* Add in a toggle to allow Shield Surveyors to use/drop "real" shields?
* I don't think this is possible, but have enemies drop their guns when they
  go into a "no gun" state?  I couldn't even figure out a way to do it
  with TPS's Ascending Dahl troops, and they've already got behaviors to
  drop gear built-in, though.
  * Enraged Goliaths
  * Loaders having their limbs knocked off
* A loader or two in End of the Line can spawn without limbs, but will still
  drop a gun.  Not sure if I can get that to not drop...

Licenses
========

The `generate-source.py` script itself is licensed under the
[3-clause BSD license](https://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause),
which should be permissive enough to do just about whatever with.

The mod itself is licensed under
[Public Domain / CC0 1.0 Universal](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

See [COPYING-code.txt](../COPYING-code.txt) and [COPYING-mods.txt](../COPYING-mods.txt)
for the full text.

Changelog
=========

**v1.1.1** - July 22, 2018
 * Included fix, thanks to 55tumbl, so that enemies using Roid/Maylay shields 
   receive the intended melee damage boost, instead of the extremely powerful
   attacks that they were doing.
 * Updated bundled BL2 Early Bloomer to v1.1.1, to include a couple of items
   which weren't properly unlocked previously.
 * Removed some outdated wording in the mod header comments

**v1.1.0** - July 17, 2018 (commit `7a654f0ac8e8682814395f335ecdb6358b138984`)
 * Converted to BLCM format *(we now require BLCMM; FilterTool is not supported)*
 * Updated for UCP 4.1 Compatibility *(various loot pool reassignments)*
 * Added an option to have enemy guns not drop all the time (at least at lower
   rarities), as we have in the TPS version of this mod.  This is, more or less,
   BL1-style loot drops, apparently.
 * Added an option to not have rocket launchers in the global equip pools, mostly
   for help in UVHM where facing launcher-using enemies is *suuper* deadly.
 * Added in my BL2 Early Bloomer mod to enable all item/weapon types from the
   very beginning of the game.
 * Forced some early-game unlocks from Early Bloomer to be active at all times,
   regardless of whether that option is selected, to prevent early-game enemies
   from having no equipment.
 * Reorganized the section which disables world weapon/shield drops so that
   disabling weapons/shields in chests is easily toggleable via a single
   category.
 * Specific enemy tweaks:
   * Added bosses from Digistruct Peak:
      * Bone Head 3.0 equips Bone Shredder / Shredifier
      * Digi Doc Mercy has a 50% chance to equip the Infinity
      * Digi Assassins all equip as they do in Southpaw Steam and Power
   * Set Nomad Pyros to equip/drop real ARs in Normal (formerly they would only do
     so in TVHM+)
   * Fixed Boom and Bewm to drop their shotguns properly
   * Made Badass Creepers and Chubby/Tubby enemies use our unique-drop-chance
     selection for their unique drops
   * Removed putting "real" shields on Jack's Digistruct Clones during the
     storyline Warrior battle, and from the Handsome Sorcerer's Clones during
     the Dragon Keep DLC final battle.
 * Changed some enemy shield pools so they can't spawn Turtle shields, since
   Turtle shields can potentially cause the enemy to become literally unkillable,
   with the right combination of shield parts, rarity, and level:
    * Midget Rats
    * Laney's Dwarves
    * Hyperion Hawks
    * Psycho Snow Midgets
 * Included necessary skinpool reassignment code in the mod itself, so we don't
   rely on anything from UCP.
 * Fixes some errant commas in various statements (didn't affect the mod itself
   but was causing some syntax warnings in BLCMM)
 * Cosmetic changes in Enemy Gear Quality comments:
   * Ensure that reported rarity percentages report "1%" instead of "1.0%".
   * Condense regular/badass percentages onto the same lines
 * Alphabetized boss lists in "Boss Unique Weapon Frequency" section

**v1.0.0** - June 2, 2018 (commit `e69036bad26493073be7bd82207266aac77d2577`)
 * Initial Release
